Now that our environment is sorted out that we
bootstrapped a very basic Angular application,
let's execute it.
Like for our Java EE application, we need a web server.
We could use WildFly as our runtime environment actually,
but instead we will use the default Angular web server,
it is called Express.
Express will allow us to have a better feedback loop
because it renders the application in memory.
So it is just a matter of updating our code, HTML, CSS, or TypeScript files.
The TypeScript gets transpiled into JavaScript.
The web server reloads the resources in memory and refreshes the browser.
You will see in the next demo,
this makes it very easy to change code and see it immediately running live.
Also notice that Angular applications don't need to be
packaged into a war file like in Java EE,
which simplifies the development process.
So let's come back to our deployment diagram and see the
impact of our new Angular application.
Until now we have a Java EE application packaged in a war file,
deployed into WildFly and listening on port 8080.
Now with Angular we've added a new web server,
Express, which will render the web application on port 4200.
So we have two separate servers running on different
processes and listening on different HTTP ports.
Remember that our data is stored into an in-memory database.
This means our database is not running on a separate
process or listening on a specific port.
And let's add Twitter Bootstrap to beautify our generated application.
Bootstrap being an external dependency,
it is just a matter of adding it to the package.
json file and let Yarn download and install it in the node modules directory.
Once the dependency in place,
we need to add the CSS and JavaScript files of Bootstrap to our application,
and of course, add the Bootstrap components to our HTML pages,
such as buttons, navigation bars, and so on.
So in this demo we will start the web server with ng
server and leave it running while we code.
By default the web server is in watch mode.
That means that any time we update a file,
it is automatically rendered into the browser.
The application should then appear in our browser on port 4200.
While the server is up and running we'll use Yarn to add
the Bootstrap dependency and change the configuration file
so we can set up Bootstrap.
Finally,
we will update some HTML and TypeScript components to
start adding some visual to our bookstore.
Now that the application is bootstrapped, let's execute it.
The main component to be displayed is app component and to
execute it I'm going to use this ng serve command.
So here it is, the app component, the main one,
and if I do ng server, all the classes are compiled,
everything is packaged in memory and the Express web server
executes the components that we have.
Here I have Welcome to bs, the title,
and you see if I change the bs into BookStore,
save the page, it's compiled again and immediately the browser refreshes.
So now I'm going to get rid of this Welcome to to keep only the bookstore title,
save, compiles, refresh.
That's why I put the browser on the right and the IDE on the left.
Okay but let's add Twitter Bootstrap to other much beautiful application.
So I'm going to open the terminal and use Yarn to add the bootstrap dependency.
So while I execute this command,
Yarn downloads all the dependencies and put the dependency in the package JSON.
That just downloaded the bootstrap CSS and JavaScript file.
Now I go to the Angular CLI and I've already copy pasted
the needed CSS and bootstrap js files.
So here, as you can see, I've added bootstrap.
css and bootstrap.
js to the Angular CLI configuration.
So here I am on the Twitter Bootstrap page.
There's plenty of templates we can choose from, navigation bars and so on.
I quite like this jumbotron,
so our bookstore application will look like the jumbotron.
So now I've copied again this jumbotron template and I'm going to copy into,
well passed into the app component HTML,
so I'm getting rid of all that and pasting all the Twitter Bootstrap things.
Again, the page is compiled, refreshed in memory,
and because it's responsive,
you see I have two menus to list the books and create a new book,
and it's responsive so when it's smaller I have the menu on the right,
List and Create.
It looks like we are all set now. We have Twitter Bootstrap set up, let's go.